---
title: 'Graph'
date: 2017-08-11
permalink: /posts/2017/08/11/blog-post-2/
---

In computer science, a graph is an abstract data type that is meant to implement the undirected graph and directed graph concepts from mathematics, specifically the field of graph theory.

A graph data structure consists of a finite (and possibly mutable) set of vertices or nodes or points, together with a set of unordered pairs of these vertices for an undirected graph or a set of ordered pairs for a directed graph. These pairs are known as edges, arcs, or lines for an undirected graph and as arrows, directed edges, directed arcs, or directed lines for a directed graph. The vertices may be part of the graph structure, or may be external entities represented by integer indices or references.

## 133. Clone Graph
<pre>
class Solution:
    # @param node, a undirected graph node
    # @return a undirected graph node
    def cloneGraph(self, node):
        if node == None:
            return None
        res = UndirectedGraphNode(node.label)
        dict = {node.label: res}
        stack = [node]
        while stack:
            top = stack.pop()
            cnode = dict[top.label]
            for n in top.neighbors:
                if n.label not in dict:
                    dict[n.label] = UndirectedGraphNode(n.label)
                    stack.append(n)
                cnode.neighbors.append(dict[n.label])
        return res
</pre>
Time Complexity: O(n), Space Complexity: O(n).

## 207. Course Schedule
<pre>
</pre>

## 210. Course Schedule II
<pre>
</pre>

## 310. Minimum Height Trees
<pre>
</pre>

## 332. Reconstruct Itinerary
<pre>
</pre>

## 399. Evaluate Division
<pre>
</pre>
