---
title: 'Reservoir Sampling'
date: 2017-07-23
permalink: /posts/2017/07/23/blog-post-1/
---

Reservoir sampling is a family of randomized algorithms for randomly choosing a sample of k items from a list S containing n items, where n is either a very large or unknown number. Typically n is large enough that the list doesn't fit into main memory.

Example: Sample size 1
------

Suppose we see a sequence of items, one at a time. We want to keep a single item in memory, and we want it to be selected at random from the sequence. If we know the total number of items (n), then the solution is easy: select an index i between 1 and n with equal probability, and keep the i-th element. The problem is that we do not always know n in advance. A possible solution is the following:

* Keep the first item in memory.
* When the i-th item arrives (for i>1):
  * with probability 1/i, keep the new item (discard the old one)
  * with probability 1-1/i, keep the old item (ignore the new one)

So:
* when there is only one item, it is kept with probability 1;
* when there are 2 items, each of them is kept with probability 1/2;
* when there are 3 items, the third item is kept with probability 1/3, and each of the previous 2 items are also kept with probability (1/2)(1-1/3) = (1/2)(2/3) = 1/3;
* by induction, it is easy to prove that when there are n items, each item is kept with probability 1/n.

Example: Sample size k
------

The algorithm creates a "reservoir" array of size k and populates it with the first k items of S. It then iterates through the remaining elements of S until S is exhausted. At the ith element of S, the algorithm generates a random number j between 1 and i. If j is less than or equal to k, the jth element of the reservoir array is replaced with the ith element of S. In effect, for all i, the ith element of S is chosen to be included in the reservoir with probability k/i. Similarly, at each iteration the jth element of the reservoir array is chosen to be replaced with probability 1/k*k/i, which simplifies to 1/i. It can be shown that when the algorithm has finished executing, each item in S has equal probability (i.e. k/length(S)) of being chosen for the reservoir.

## 382. Linked List Random Node
<pre>
class Solution(object):
    
    def __init__(self, head):
        """
        @param head The linked list's head.
        Note that the head is guaranteed to be not null, so it contains at least one node.
        :type head: ListNode
        """
        self.head = head

    def getRandom(self):
        """
        Returns a random node's value.
        :rtype: int
        """
        count = 0
        head = self.head
        while head != None:
            if random.randint(0,count) == 0:
                res = head.val
            head = head.next
            count += 1
        return res
</pre>
Time Complexity: O(n), Space Complexity: O(1).

## 398. Random Pick Index
<pre>
class Solution(object):

    def __init__(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :type numsSize: int
        """
        self.nums = nums
        
    def pick(self, target):
        """
        :type target: int
        :rtype: int
        """
        count = 0
        for i in range(len(self.nums)):
            if self.nums[i] == target:
                if random.randint(0,count) == 0:
                    res = i
                count += 1
        return res
</pre>
Time Complexity: O(n), Space Complexity: O(1).
